#Searching the IntAct database

######Adaped from the "Tutorial on the IntAct database" by Luana Licata
-


###Introduction

####Protein-Protein Interactions and Molecular Interactions Databases
A good knowledge of the biological systems complexity needs a complete understanding of protein-protein interactions and their molecular machinery. Molecular interaction data can be generated by many different techniques and there is a huge amount of data and large-scale datasets of molecular interactions constantly published.
Therefore, numerous databases have been established in order to collect, archive, disseminate and manipulate molecular interaction data. The main purpose of these repositories is to capture molecular interaction data, to organise them in a structured format, which allows users to perform searches and bioinformatics analysis. Therefore, molecular interaction databases are key to the interpretation of cellular complexity.

####IntAct Database
[IntAct] (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact) is a publicly available repository of molecular interactions. It collects molecular interaction data coming either from manually curated literature or from direct data depositions. The IntAct curation interface has been developed as a web-based platform in order to allow external curation teams to annotate data directly into the database.  All data can be searched, viewed and downloaded. Data can be accessed, through the IntAct ftp site, in PSI-MI XML and MITAB 2.5, 2.6 and 2.7 formats. Alternatively, the complete dataset can be downloaded directly from the website in RDF and XGMML formats. Data are also accessible through the PSICQUIC web service IMEx website. IntAct is an active member of the IMEx consortium, which adopts common curation rules and data formats.

####Searching IntAct
In this training session you will search the IntAct database. You will perform different searches, check the number of interaction evidences supporting each search, look for the experimental details of a specific interaction, and download data using different formats.

*Step1: Quick Search*

In the quick search panel, it is possible to type protein name, gene name, Accession Numbers, GO term, publication ID, authors name, experimental detection method, etc.
In these exercises you will perform a very simple search and look at your results in the IntAct viewer. You may perform the exercise below or alternatively, you may try a protein you are interested in. 
Open the [IntAct homepage](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact) in a web browser.
Type in the Quick Search textbox ‘MEKK1’ and click on the Search button.

**Q1**: How many binary interactions can you find?

Searching on a non-specific gene name will bring you up a mixed set of results. Refine your search using either Q13233 or M3K1_HUMAN.

**Q2**: How many binary interactions do you find by refining the search?
 
Go to the detailed view of the MEKK1 (Q13233) / BRAF (P15056) interaction that has "Protein Kinase assay" as Interaction detection Method.

**Q3**: Which of these proteins acts as enzyme in this reaction?

**Q4**: What is the stoichiometry?

*Step2: Refining your search using the Advanced Search*

Using the Molecular Interaction Query Language, available from the quick search panel, it is possible to perform more complex queries. This will allow you to write complex queries.   
**Example**:
To discover if there is any interaction available in the database between *Plasmodium falciparum* (isolate 3D7) and human proteins: a) Clear all previous searches b) Type ‘taxidA:36329 AND taxidB:9606’.  
Clicking on ```Advanced search``` and then on ```Show Advanced Fields```(on the right of the ```Search``` textbox in the IntAct homepage) opens up the Advanced Search options. Here, you can specify one or more fields you wish to search in, and build a complex query as you progress. 
For example, you can clear the previous search and use the ```Show Advanced Fields``` to search for ‘organism’ = human AND ‘Interaction detection method’ = surface plasmon resonance

**Q5**: How many interactions can you see for ‘organism’ = human AND ‘Interaction detection method’ = two hybrid?  

**Q6**: How many interactions do you see for P53_HUMAN AND ‘Interaction type’ = physical?

**Q7**: How many interactions do you see for ABL1_HUMAN AND interactor feature = direct?

Go to the ```detailed view``` of the ABL1-HUMAN (P00519) / P41 (EBI-7094147) interaction that has **isothermal titration calorimetry** as “Interaction detection Method”: 

**Q8**: Which are the Interaction Parameters associated to this interaction?

Go back to the interaction list of the previous search and go to the detailed view of the ABL1_HUMAN (P00519) / P41 (EBI-7094147)interaction that has **X-ray crystallography** as “Interaction detection Method".

**Q9**: Which are the "Experimental Features" of this interaction for both interactors?  Which binding site and which mutation(s)?

*Step3: Download data*

Search for all the human PPIs present in IntAct using the quick or advanced search.

**Q10**: Download the interactions found as PSI-MI xml and MITAB 2.7.

Go to the search page and type the PMID: 22014111.

**Q11**: How many interactions can you find? Download all the PPIs associated to this PMID as XGMML format.
 
Go to the Download page and download all the PPIs from the “Virus” dataset in PSI2.5 format. 

**Q12**: How many articles are associated to this dataset? How many interactions?



